>> Steve Kinney: I'm going to give you
some challenges and then we'll do one or
two of them together depending on my mood.
We go into these has challenges here.
The one you should definitely take on is
let's refactor that checkbox container.
You can find the answer if you
look at the previous thing.
But we can try some of these as well.
We did a version of this.
Yeah, and if anyone has some interesting
use cases, you wanna try to stump me,
cuz people who edit these
videos love when that happens.
Let's totally do that.
And if you come up with some ideas,
could you do this thing?
I'll take a run at it live, right?
And so if anything comes up,
we'll try it out.
But let's definitely try this one because
we have all of the pieces from a previous
example.
And I'll put what I had up on the screen
as well just so you can see it.
But what I have right now has appeared.
So like we want to make the whole
thing turn green or whatever color.
Just some visual feedback for the parent
element based on the checkbox itself.
All right, so our mission is,
we want to have some styling.
Like we have that focus within
which I guess counts a little bit.
But we would love to give some feedback
of if it's checked or whatever.
Have a actual style for
the parent itself in this case.
So this will involve a little bit of, and
we can mostly get a while with just has.
We can do some other interesting
things while we're at it too.
Cool.
So let's get
rid of some of the other stuff
that we're playing around with.
Mostly the focus
within piece.
So then I've got a, yeah,
we don't even have a.
Just other fun stuff that we have.
It's got a border, it's got a background.
The peer checked works in this case.
We'll see if we can do it
both ways in a second.
So this one becomes somewhat easy
where we can simply say has and
we can say has checked.
And we want to say bg green.
I don't know, 100 seems good, right?
So now, if it has a checkbox
it changes like theory.
We can query for other stuff in there.
We'll find some other
places to do this as well.
And if we wanted to the peer works here,
but we could also do something
like effectively this will get you
the same group has checked line through.
I didn't put the group if you.
All right, we'll talk about this in
a second, this is actually good.
You don't have the group on there,
then it's not in the group.
And we can see, we can hover over this.
We see group.
Where my intellisense go after I
got done complaining about i?.
We'll show back up in a second.
So, yeah, we have the group.
So now we have the same
effect we had up here.
The nice part about this one is I don't
know why you would move a label before
a checkbox.
But the important part is that
nothing will break because
the logic is still the same, right?
If it isn't a parent that has
a checkbox that is checked,
you will still get the strikethrough
whether or not it's before, whether or
not it's after,
both will work in this case.
All right, did anyone have some
ridiculous challenges for me to try?
Mike's thinking about it.
He's thinking about how devious he
wants to be at this moment, which I.
>> Speaker 3: Wonder if you
have a couple of checkboxes and
the middle one is checked, then you show
two more questions lower in the page.
>> Steve Kinney: Okay,
let's start with the.
Show two more questions if
there's one in the page, right?
And then we'll get to that.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, I think the idea is
it's a specific one that needs more info.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
Yeah, I like it.
Let's do it.
Cool.
So let's say, let me put that label.
We want the label after it.
And we'll say paragraph.
Or let's give it a div.
Let's change the label to.
The label's kind of.
We can change in storybook.
>> Speaker 2: What was your dog's name?
And the question could be,
did you have a dog?
>> Steve Kinney: Or I was gonna say, yeah-
>> Speaker 2: Whatever you want.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah,
we'll leave the label, the checkbox.
We'll just show something like.
We'll show I'm real generic,
so we don't care.
And then we'll do an input.
Sure, yes,
definitely take what we wrote before.
That seems great to me.
So right now it shows everything.
So we could do something like.
So now it is completely hidden.
You can't see any of that.
What we can do is,
in this case, we can just say,
group has checked, turn it into a block.
Now, we can say,
if only the second one, at that point,
what I would probably do is just
have my div kind of be the, yeah,
I'd have my parent element
be the controller of it.
But you could do something
like has nth child 2 checked?
That will work.
You can do that, but you probably hate
yourself at that point, [LAUGH] yeah.
And yeah,
at that point I would maybe give this one.
Yeah, I would probably,
just on a layout level,
cuz I think it's worth talking about
just to make it a little more realistic.
I would probably put the checkbox and
stuff in there.
And then I would maybe
give it like space-y-4.
It's fun.
Accident, this is such a good segue too.
So this works or it doesn't work for
a very real reason, which is that space
Y4 is problematic because it's saying
put a margin bottom on every element.
That's not the last element, right?
And it's working.
It's not what I want, but it's working.
So in this place, it's definitely
a point where something like flex,
which we will talk about flexbox in
a second, but it's called a segue.
Flex call.
And we'll say gap of two.
Now when we check.
Shows up as well and
we've got that in place,
we could even probably like,
I'm gonna.
I'm gonna go.
I'm gonna regret this.
I'm going for a bon.
Pulling that primary button.
I think my primary button just always says
button no matter what, but that's fine.
Actually, we're gonna
do something similar.
There's a way to figure out if a input
field is empty or not, right?
You could technically do required and
have the valid invalid state.
That's probably the right way to
do it now that I think about it.
But I'll show you both,
because I'll show you both.
So this flex call, now we're gonna
say if it's checked will be flex.
Okay, cool.
Give it a gap of 2.
So if we wanted to say like this button
should only be shown if they add a reason
or something like that.
Let's not even do flex-col.
Let's do flex in this case.
That's ugly, but we'll go with it.
Let's say we only want that button to
appear if there's something written in
here as well, right?
We can kind of continue to be like.
Again, I don't know if I
can pass classes there.
Let me just put a button in here.
I don't know if I wrote
it like that at all.
Button.
We'll go with the unstyled
button at this moment.
So we say button like only shows up.
I don't know.
Group has.
You could always put in arbitrary.
Regretting this choice already,
but we're gonna do it.
We're going to do it,
it's going to be great.
Has an input group invalid and
then we'll hide it and
we're going to say that
this is then required.
So now the submit button in this case only
shows if they've got the details in there,
right?
>> Speaker 4: So
you're really familiar with talent here.
So you know the magic incantation
of what to put in class.
Can you walk through like what you
would do if you were trying to assemble
something like this,
doing the smallest steps you can with
a temporary element or something.
How do you kinda get confident that
all the little pieces of what you've
just done are working piece by piece?
>> Steve Kinney: I mean I would
probably break this out into multiple
components, right?
So would you have one or would you have
like, is this really two components?
Is this really an input field?
And is showing or
hiding the submit button a little wonky?
Because you could.
I've got questions on the accessibility
implications thereof,
but arguably you could say that
this should be two components and
you could pull it out and
then have each piece working in isolation.
That's where that
componentization comes in place.
Because you know what you, you know,
it's really hard, you know,
you can't unit test css.
Right.
So that by your testing it becomes real,
real tricky in this case, I guess.
Could you component test it with jsdom?
Yes, you definitely could.
I'd probably just break it out and
then try to figure out like.
Cause again like this is just looking for
any invalid input and
then the submit button goes away.
This is very like high level to
be begin with at this point, but
figuring out what are the queries.
But I would probably break
it out into multiple pieces.
Does that make sense?
>> Speaker 4: Yep.
>> Steve Kinney: But yeah, you can
theoretically have all sorts of different
states change based on what's
going on in the parent.
The other example would be if we did
want to show if it has an image,
I want it to lay it out differently,
so on and so forth and
some of it is just kind of like
playing through it in that case.
But yeah, I would say breaking it apart
into small pieces that you then assemble
together.
But the point is you can
do complicated flows.
What you can't do,
you can change the way things look.
What you can't do is change
the actual attributes on an element.
But what if I want to
disable the submit button?
Can't really do that, right?
Because that would be
changing the attribute.
Well, I'm just going to make it opacity
and give it pointer events none and
hate everybody who uses a screen reader.
Right?
You know what I mean?
At that point you would
probably eventually,
on a long enough period of time,
you will end up writing JavaScript.
If you pull on the thread,
there is a large set of things that you no
longer need to do that probably
should never have been done.
If you're just changing way something
looks by applying and removing classes,
we can just have better classes, right?
If we are changing the semantic meaning.
Welcome back to JavaScript.
Right.
But one would argue that's probably
what JavaScript was here for.